#labels Featured
= !SoundCloud API = 

== Introduction ==

Please note that the API, as well as the web application, is still beta. This means that things can change.

The API is built with the design principles of REST in mind, exposing resources which can be manipulated using the HTTP methods GET, POST, PUT and DELETE.

If you have questions, comments or suggestions they are very welcome. Join the discussion on our mailing list or, if you wish to keep it private, send an email to api@soundcloud.com.

We've put up a [SimpleUseCase simple use case] if you want to see what the API is capable of.

If you've already read this document from top to bottom, you might want to check [DocumentationChanges the list of changes to this document].

=== Getting started ===

Examples throughout this document will mainly be illustrated using [http://curl.haxx.se cURL]. We start by requesting the tracks that are publicly accessible:

Using cURL:
{{{
$ curl 'http://api.soundcloud.com/tracks'

< HTTP/1.1 200 OK

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<tracks type="array">
  <track>
    <id type="integer">11</id>
    <title>Final Countdown</title>
	  ...
    <sharing>public</sharing>
  </track>
  <track>
    <id type="integer">21</id>
    <title>The Musical Offering</title>
	  ...
    <sharing>public</sharing>
  </track>
</tracks>
}}}

To get all request and response headers do the cURL request in verbose mode using the -v flag.

== Authentication ==

Anyone can read Users, public Tracks and Comments on public Tracks. Other resources are protected and need authentication.

=== Basic HTTP ===

When using HTTP Basic Authorization Consumer key and secret also have to be passed. This is required to discourage client applications to send users' login credentials over the wire (and storing them in an insecure way locally) and enabling us to keep track of API traffic.

Using cURL with -u username:password to access protected resources and passing Consumer credentials in the X-Authorization header:
{{{
$ curl -u joey:hairspray -H 'X-Authorization: OAuth
  oauth_consumer_key="Iam1337RUleet2"
  oauth_consumer_secret="i81wouldU8eat12"
  ' 'http://api.soundcloud.com/me'
}}}

=== OAuth ===

Authentication can also be done with OAuth, a standard to give third party applications the authority to act on a user's behalf. You need to register a client application which is connected to your !SoundCloud user account.

If you're not already familiar with OAuth, please read more on oauth.net and check out the OAuth mailing list.

== Resource types ==

The resources can have different roles, but when processing the response data from the API the five resource types are all you have to keep in mind.

=== User ==

Users are the active object. Users are able to create Tracks, Comments, upload Assets, make other Users their contacts and make Tracks favorites. 

XML representation:
{{{
<user>
  <id type="integer">1</id>
  <username>joey</username>
  <full-name>Joey Tempest</full-name>
  <description>Stormwind, just like a wind.</description>
  <city>Upplands Väsby</city>
  <country>Sweden</country>
  <discogs-name>joeytempest</discogs-name>
  <myspace-name>joeyt</myspace-name>
  <website>http://www.europe.com/~joeyt/</website>
  <website-title>Home of the Stormwind</website-title>
  <online>true</online>
  <avatar-url>http://assets.soundcloud.com/profile_images/0000/0000/i123456.jpg</avatar-url>
</user>
}}}

=== Track ===

Tracks have two different sharing modes, public and private. Public tracks are accessible to all users and private tracks are only accessible to users to whom the Track's creator has explicitly given permission.

XML representation:
{{{
<track>
  <id type="integer">1</id>
  <user-id type="integer">881091440</user-id>
  <title>Final Countdown</title>
  <permalink>final-countdown</permalink>
  <description>This is a song I wrote with some friends a couple of years ago.</description>
  <sharing>public</sharing>
  <bpm type="float">118.2</bpm>
  <comments-count type="integer">23</comments-count>
  <created-at type="datetime">2008-02-20T18:44:35+01:00</created-at>
  <downloadable type="boolean">false</downloadable>
  <downloads-count type="integer">34</downloads-count>
  <duration type="integer">31000</duration>
</track>
}}}

=== Asset ===

Assets are the audio files that are heard when playing a Track.

XML representation:
{{{
<asset>
  <id type="integer">1</id>
  <track-id type="integer">1</track-id>
</asset>
}}}

=== Comment ===

Comments can be made on a Track. Users can only read comments made on Tracks they have access to. If a timestamp is supplied the comment will be displayed at, or around, that time during playback of the Track on the !SoundCloud website.

XML representation:
{{{
<comment>
  <id type="integer">1</id>
  <track-id type="integer">1</track-id>
  <user-id type="integer">2</user-id>
  <body>Great guitar solo!</body>
  <timestamp type="integer">2010000</timestamp>
</comment>
}}}

=== Event ===

Events are notifications informing a User about things that have happened concerning them, and contains the related resources.

They are always ordered with the latest events first.

In the examples below the User receiving the event is called "the recipient".

==== Comment ===
Another User creates a Comment on a Track of the recipient or in a Comment thread where the recipient has also made a comment. 
{{{
<event>
  <created-at type="datetime">2008-04-04T11:05:15+02:00</created-at>
  <id type="integer">4</id>
  <resource_id type="integer">1</id>
  <type>Comment</type>
  <comment>
     <id type="integer">1</id>
     ...
  </comment>
</event>
}}}

==== Track ===
A User gives the recipient access to a private Track or a User whom the recipient is a fan of creates a public Track.
{{{
<event>
  <created-at type="datetime">2008-04-03T11:05:15+02:00</created-at>
  <id type="integer">3</id>
  <resource_id type="integer">1</id>
  <type>Track</type>
  <track>
    <id type="integer">1</id>
    ...
  </track>
</event>
}}}

==== Fan ===
A User adds the recipient as a contact, hence becomes a fan of the recipient.
{{{
<event>
  <created-at type="datetime">2008-04-02T11:05:15+02:00</created-at>
  <id type="integer">2</id>
  <resource_id type="integer">1</id>
  <type>Fan</type>
  <user>
    <id type="integer">1</id>
    ...
  </user>
</event>
}}}

==== Favorite ===
A User adds one of the recipient's Tracks to their favorites.
{{{
<event>
  <created-at type="datetime">2008-04-01T11:05:15+02:00</created-at>
  <id type="integer">1</id>
  <resource_id type="integer">1</id>
  <type>Favorite</type>
  <track>
    <id type="integer">1</id>
    ...
  </track>
</event>
}}}

== Response formats ==

Representations in XML and JSON are available.

Choose response format by either appending .format to the URL:

{{{
http://api.soundcloud.com/me.xml

http://api.soundcloud.com/me.json

http://api.soundcloud.com/me.js
}}}

or send an accept header specifying the mime type.

When using cURL:

{{{
$ curl -u joey:hairspray -H "Accept: text/xml" 'http://api.soundcloud.com/me/'
$ curl -u joey:hairspray -H "Accept: application/xml" 'http://api.soundcloud.com/me/'
$ curl -u joey:hairspray -H "Accept: application/x-xml" 'http://api.soundcloud.com/me/'

$ curl -u joey:hairspray -H "Accept: application/json" 'http://api.soundcloud.com/me/'

$ curl -u joey:hairspray -H "Accept: text/javascript" 'http://api.soundcloud.com/me/'
}}}

The default response format is XML. 

== Request content types ==

When creating or updating resources data can be passed as urlencoded or in XML-format.

The two examples below are equivalent:

URL encoded:
{{{
$ curl -u joey:hairspray 'http://api.soundcloud.com/tracks' -X POST -d 'track[title]=Superstitious&track[description]=A song about people.'
}}}

XML:
{{{
$ curl -u joey:hairspray 'http://api.soundcloud.com/tracks' -X POST -H 'Content-Type: application/xml'  -d '
<track>
	<title>Superstitious</title>
	<description>A song about people.</description>
</track>
'
}}}

The examples below will use XML-format for legibility.

Sending data as JSON is planned for the official release.

== Cross site scripting ==

=== JSONP ===

When you want to embed !SoundCloud content in script-tags, request JavaScript and pass the name of your response handler in the "callback"-parameter.

Example:
{{{
<script src="http://api.soundcloud.com/me.js?callback=XSS.JSONP.callback" type="text/javascript"></script>
}}}

=== Flash ===

To access !SoundCloud content from Flash, we have put the Flash cross domain policy file at: http://sandbox.soundcloud.com/crossdomain.xml

Further resources on Flash cross site scripting:
  * [http://moock.org/asdg/technotes/crossDomainPolicyFiles/ Crossdomain Article by Colin Moock]
  * [http://www.adobe.com/devnet/flash/articles/fplayer_security.html Adobe Developer Center]
  * [http://www.macromedia.com/cfusion/knowledgebase/index.cfm?id=tn_14213 Adobe Crossdomain Technote]

== Collections ==

If a response contains more than one result it is served as a collection of resources. Theses collections always contain only one type of resources.

=== Partitions ==

Collections are served in partitions limited to a maximum of 50 items.

When requesting a collection it is possible to pass two parameters: *offset* and *limit*. Offset defaults to 0 and limit defaults to 50, if a larger value for limit is passed it is set to 50. If you receive fewer items than you asked for you are at the end of the collection.

Retrieving the whole collection can be done by repeatedly requesting the collection, starting with an offset value of 0, and then increasing the offset for each request until the response contains fewer elements than requested or if it is empty.

== Client forward compatibility ==

The API may change when new features are introduced. New attribute and sub resources might be added to existing resource types and resource types might be added.

== Resources ==

=== api/users ===

||  *Resource*									                ||  *Method*          ||
||  /users/									                ||  GET               ||
||  /users/{user_id}						            ||  GET, PUT          ||
||  /users/{user_id}/tracks					        ||  GET               ||
||  /users/{user_id}/comments				        ||  GET               ||
||  /users/{user_id}/contacts				        ||  GET               ||
||  /users/{user_id}/contacts/{contact_id}	||  GET, PUT, DELETE  ||
||  /users/{user_id}/comments				        ||  GET               ||
||  /users/{user_id}/favorites				      ||  GET               ||
||  /users/{user_id}/favorites/{track_id}   ||  GET, PUT, DELETE  ||

For each resource /users/{user_id}`*` there is a resource /me`*`.
Using these resources gives the logged in user as the given user.

==== GET /users ===
Type: Collection of Users

Retrieves all users.

{{{
$ curl -u joey:hairspray 'http://api.soundcloud.com/users'

< HTTP/1.1 200 OK

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<users>
  <user>
    <id type="integer">1</id>
    <username>joey</username>
    ...
  </user>
</users>
}}}

The resource is searchable by passing the query to the resource. It then lists a subset matching the search query.

{{{
$ curl -u joey:hairspray 'http://api.soundcloud.com/users?q=seba'

< HTTP/1.1 200 OK

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<users>
  <user>
    <id type="integer">2</id>
    <username>jsb</username>
    <full-name>Johann Sebastian Bach</full-name>
    ...
  </user>
  <user>
    <id type="integer">5</id>
    <username>seba</username>
    <full-name>Sebastian Ahrenberg</full-name>
    ...
  </user>
</users>
}}}

==== GET /users/{user_id} ====
==== GET /me ====
Type: User

The given user.

{{{
$ curl -u joey:hairspray 'http://api.soundcloud.com/me'

< HTTP/1.1 200 OK

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<user>
  <id type="integer">1</id>
  <username>joey</username>
  ...
</user>
}}}

==== GET /users/{user_id}/tracks ====
==== GET /me/tracks ====
Type: Collection of Tracks

The given user's uploaded tracks.

{{{
$ curl -u joey:hairspray 'http://api.soundcloud.com/me/tracks'

< HTTP/1.1 200 OK

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<tracks type="array">
  <track>
    <id type="integer">12</id>
    <title>Carrie</title>
	  ...
    <sharing>private</sharing>
  </track>
  <track>
    <id type="integer">11</id>
    <title>Final Countdown</title>
	  ...
    <sharing>public</sharing>
  </track>
</tracks>
}}}

Requesting the tracks resource of another user:

{{{
$ curl -u joey:hairspray 'http://api.soundcloud.com/users/2/tracks'

< HTTP/1.1 200 OK

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<tracks type="array">
  <track>
    <id type="integer">21</id>
    <title>The Musical Offering</title>
	  ...
    <sharing>public</sharing>
  </track>
</tracks>
}}}

The resource is searchable by passing the query to the resource. It then lists a subset matching the search query.

==== GET /users/{user_id}/comments ====
==== GET /me/comments ====
Type: Collection of Comments

Comments made by the given user. 

==== GET /users/{user_id}/contacts ====
==== GET /me/contacts ====
Type: Collection of Users

The given user's contacts.

{{{
$ curl 'http://api.soundcloud.com/users/2/contacts'

< HTTP/1.1 200 OK

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<users>
	<user>
		<id type="integer">3</id>
		<username>vice</username>
		...
	</user>
	<user>
		<id type="integer">4</id>
		<username>mchammer</username>
		...
	</user>
</users>
}}}

==== PUT /users/{user_id}/contacts/{contact_id} ====
==== PUT /me/contacts/{contact_id} ====
Adds the user with the id contact_id to the given user's list of contacts. Responds with 403 Forbidden if the given user is not the logged in user.

{{{
$ curl -u joey:hairspray 'http://api.soundcloud.com/users/1/contacts/21' -X PUT

< HTTP/1.1 201 Created
}}}

==== DELETE /users/{user_id}/contacts/{contact_id} ====
==== DELETE /me/contacts/{contact_id} ====
Removes the user with the id contact_id from the given user's list of contacts. Responds with 403 Forbidden if the given user is not the logged in user.

{{{
$ curl -u joey:hairspray 'http://api.soundcloud.com/users/1/contacts/21' -X DELETE

< HTTP/1.1 200 OK
}}}

==== GET /users/{user_id}/fans ====
==== GET /me/fans ====
Type: Collection of Users

The given user's fans.

{{{
$ curl 'http://api.soundcloud.com/users/2/fans/'

< HTTP/1.1 200 OK
}}}

==== GET /users/{user_id}/favorites ====
==== GET /me/favorites ====
Type: Collection of Tracks

The given user's favorited tracks.

{{{
$ curl 'http://api.soundcloud.com/users/1/favorites/'

< HTTP/1.1 200 OK

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<tracks type="array">
  <track>
    <id type="integer">21</id>
    <title>The Musical Offering</title>
	  ...
    <sharing>public</sharing>
  </track>
</tracks>

}}}

==== PUT /users/{user_id}/favorites/{track_id}====
==== PUT /me/favorites/{track_id} ====
Adds the given track to the given user's list of favorites. Responds with 403 Forbidden if the given user is not the logged in user.

{{{
$ curl -u joey:hairspray 'http://api.soundcloud.com/me/favorites/3' -X PUT

< HTTP/1.1 201 Created
}}}

==== DELETE /users/{user_id}/favorites/{track_id} ====
==== DELETE /me/favorites/{track_id} ====
Adds the given track to the given user's list of favorites. Responds with 403 Forbidden if the given user is not the logged in user.

{{{
$ curl -u joey:hairspray 'http://api.soundcloud.com/users/1/favorites/3' -X DELETE

< HTTP/1.1 200 OK
}}}

=== api/tracks ===

||  *Resource*								                ||	*Method*          ||
||  /tracks							                	||	GET, POST         ||
||  /tracks/{track_id}				          	||	GET, PUT, DELETE  ||
||  /tracks/{track_id}/comments		      	||	GET, POST         ||
||  /tracks/{track_id}/permissions  	  	||	GET, PUT          ||
||  /tracks/{track_id}/assets/{asset_id}  ||	GET, PUT          ||
||  /tracks/{track_id}/download			      ||	GET               ||
||  /tracks/{track_id}/stream			        ||	GET               ||

==== GET /tracks ====
Type: Collection of Tracks

Collection of all tracks.

Parameters:
  * filter, *all*|public|private
  * order, *creation*|hotness
  * from_date, date (yyyy-mm-dd hh:mm:ss), start of time interval for hotness ordering
  * to_date, date (yyyy-mm-dd hh:mm:ss), end of time interval for hotness ordering

Unauthenticated request:

{{{
$ curl 'http://api.soundcloud.com/tracks'

< HTTP/1.1 200 OK

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<tracks type="array">
  <track>
    <id type="integer">11</id>
    <title>Final Countdown</title>
	...
    <sharing>public</sharing>
  </track>
  <track>
    <id type="integer">21</id>
    <title>The Musical Offering</title>
	...
    <sharing>public</sharing>
  </track>
</tracks>
}}}

Authenticated request:

{{{
$ curl -u joey:hairspray 'http://api.soundcloud.com/tracks'

< HTTP/1.1 200 OK

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<tracks type="array">
  <track>
    <id type="integer">11</id>
    <title>Final Countdown</title>
	...
    <sharing>public</sharing>
  </track>
  <track>
    <id type="integer">12</id>
    <title>Carrie</title>
    ...
    <sharing>private</sharing>
  </track>
  <track>
    <id type="integer">21</id>
    <title>The Musical Offering</title>
	...
    <sharing>public</sharing>
  </track>
  <track>
    <id type="integer">22</id>
    <title>Ice, Ice, Baby</title>
	...
    <sharing>private</sharing>
  </track>
</tracks>
}}}

The collection is searchable by passing the query to the resource. It then lists a subset matching the search query.

{{{
$ curl -u joey:hairspray 'http://api.soundcloud.com/tracks?q=ice'

< HTTP/1.1 200 OK

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<tracks type="array">
  <track>
    <bpm type="float" nil="true"></bpm>
    <comments-count type="integer">0</comments-count>
    <created-at type="datetime">2008-02-26T17:39:24+01:00</created-at>
    <description>Cooking MCs like a pound of bacon.</description>
    <downloadable type="boolean">false</downloadable>
    <downloads-count type="integer">0</downloads-count>
    <duration type="integer">0</duration>
    <id type="integer">14</id>
    <permalink>ice-ice-baby</permalink>
    <title>Ice, Ice, Baby</title>
    <user-id type="integer">10</user-id>
    <sharing>public</sharing>
  </track>
</tracks>
}}}

===== Sorting by hotness =====
The hotness of a Track is based on activity around the Track, such as comments on the Track, Users making Tracks their favorites and playbacks.
The optional date interval for the hotness ordering is the time period when the tracks were "considered hot". If you are interested in the Tracks that have received the most attention during a specific period you can pass a time interval from which the hotness is based. The time interval is set by the independently optional bounding parameters *from_date* and *to_date*.

Assume that current time is 2008-03-13 18:00:00.

Hot tracks the last 24 hours, from 2008-03-12 18:00:00

{{{
/tracks?order=hotness&from_date=2008-03-12+18%3A00%3A00
}}}

Yesterday's hot tracks, from 2008-03-11 00:00:00, to 2008-03-12 00:00:00

{{{
/tracks?order=hotness&from_date=2008-03-11+00%3A00%3A00&to_date=2008-03-12+00%3A00%3A00
}}}

Hot tracks the last seven days, from 2008-03-06

{{{
/tracks?order=hotness&from_date=2008-03-06
}}}

Hot tracks this month, from 2008-03-01

{{{
/tracks?order=hotness&from_date=2008-03-01
}}}

Hot tracks this year, from 2008-01-01

{{{
/tracks?order=hotness&from_date=2008-01-01
}}}

The hottest tracks of all time,

{{{
/tracks?order=hotness
}}}


==== POST /tracks ====
Response headers:
	Location - Canonical URI of the track

Parameters
  * *track[title ]*, string, the title of the track
  * track[description ], string, a description
  * track[downloadable ], true|false
  * track[sharing ], public|private
  * track[bpm ], float, beats per minute

Creates a track belonging to the logged in user.

{{{
$ curl -u joey:hairspray 'http://api.soundcloud.com/tracks' -X POST -H 'Content-Type: application/xml'  -d '
<track>
	<title>Superstitious</title>
	<description>A song about people.</description>
</track>
'

< HTTP/1.1 201 Created
< Location: http://api.soundcloud.com/tracks/13
}}}

==== GET /tracks/{track_id} ====
Result type: Track

Retrieves the given track.

{{{
$ curl -u joey:hairspray 'http://api.soundcloud.com/tracks/13'

< HTTP/1.1 200 OK

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<track>
  <id type="integer">13</id>
  <permalink>superstitious</permalink>
  <title>Superstitious</title>
  ...
  <sharing>private</sharing>
</track>	
}}}

==== PUT /tracks/{track_id} ====
Updates the given track.

Parameters

  * track[title ], string, the title of the track
  * track[description ], string, a description
  * track[downloadable ], true|false
  * track[sharing ], public|private
  * track[bpm ], float, beats per minute

{{{
$ curl -u joey:hairspray 'http://api.soundcloud.com/tracks/13' -X PUT -H 'Content-Type: application/xml'  -d '
<track>
	<downloadable>true</downloadable >
</track>
'

< HTTP/1.1 200 OK
}}}

==== DELETE /tracks/{track_id} ====
Deletes the given track

{{{
$ curl -u joey:hairspray 'http://api.soundcloud.com/tracks/13' -X DELETE

< HTTP/1.1 200 OK
}}}

==== GET /tracks/{track_id}/comments ====
Type: Collection of Comments

Retrieves comments made on the given track.

{{{
$ curl -u joey:hairspray 'http://api.soundcloud.com/tracks/9/comments'

< HTTP/1.1 200 OK

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<comments type="array">
  <comment>
    <body>A personal favorite of mine.</body>
    <id type="integer">2</id>
    <timestamp type="integer" nil="true"></timestamp>
    <track-id type="integer">9</track-id>
    <user-id type="integer">9</user-id>
  </comment>
</comments>
}}}


==== POST /tracks/{track_id}/comments ====
Response Headers:
	Location - The canonical URI of the comment

Creates a comment on the given track.

Parameters
  * *comment[body ]*, string
  * comment[timestamp ], integer, milliseconds
  * comment[reply_to ], integer, comment id

{{{
$ curl -u joey:hairspray 'http://api.soundcloud.com/tracks/1/comments' -X POST -H 'Content-Type: application/xml'  -d '
<comment>
	<body>Yeah!</body>
</comment >
'

< HTTP/1.1 201 Created
< Location: http://api.soundcloud.com/comments/13
}}}

==== GET /tracks/{track_id}/permissions ====
Type: Collection of Users

Retrieves the users with permission to see the track.

{{{
$ curl -u joey:hairspray 'http://api.soundcloud.com/tracks/10/permissions'

< HTTP/1.1 200 OK

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<users type="array">
  <user>
    <city nil="true"></city>
    <description>Ich bin ein deutscher Komponist des Barock.</description>
    <discogs-name nil="true"></discogs-name>
    <id type="integer">8</id>
    <myspace-name nil="true"></myspace-name>
    <username>jsb</username>
    <website></website>
    <website-title nil="true"></website-title>
    <full-name>Johann Sebastian Bach</full-name>
    <country>Germany</country>
    <online>false</online>
    <avatar-url>http://assets.soundcloud.com/images/default_profile_image_big.png?2725</avatar-url>
  </user>
  <user>
    <city nil="true"></city>
    <description>Cool as ice.</description>
    <discogs-name nil="true"></discogs-name>
    <id type="integer">10</id>
    <myspace-name nil="true"></myspace-name>
    <username>vice</username>
    <website></website>
    <website-title nil="true"></website-title>
    <full-name>Robert Matthew Van Winkle</full-name>
    <country>United States</country>
    <online>true</online>
    <avatar-url>http://assets.soundcloud.com/images/default_profile_image_big.png?2725</avatar-url>
  </user>
</users>
}}}

==== PUT /tracks/{track_id}/permissions ====
Updates the list of permitted users.

Parameters
  * *permissions[user_id ][]*, integer, the users to be granted permission

{{{
$ curl -u joey:hairspray 'http://api.soundcloud.com/tracks/12/permissions' -X PUT -H 'Content-Type: application/xml' -d '
<permissions>
	<user-id>2</user-id>
	<user-id>3</user-id>
</permissions>
'
}}}

is equivalent to:

{{{
$ curl -u joey:hairspray 'http://api.soundcloud.com/tracks/12/permissions' -X PUT -d 'permissions[user_id][]=2&permissions[user_id][]=3'

< HTTP/1.1 200 OK
}}}

==== PUT /tracks/{track_id}/assets/{asset_id} ====
Associates the given asset with the given track.

{{{
$ curl -u joey:hairspray 'http://api.soundcloud.com/tracks/1/assets/1' -X PUT

< HTTP/1.1 201 Created
}}}

==== GET /tracks/{track_id}/download ====
Type: Binary

Retrieves the original uploaded asset of the Track if it is downloadable.

{{{
$ curl -u joey:hairspray 'http://api.soundcloud.com/tracks/1/download'

< HTTP/1.1 200 OK
< Content-Transfer-Encoding: binary
< Content-Disposition: attachment; filename="final_countdown.wav"
< Content-Type: audio/x-wav
}}}

==== GET /tracks/{track_id}/stream ====
Type: Binary, MP3

Retrieves the stream of the track.

{{{
$ curl -u joey:hairspray 'http://api.soundcloud.com/tracks/1/stream'

< HTTP/1.1 200 OK
< Content-Transfer-Encoding: binary
< Content-Disposition: attachment; filename="webstream_16352042.mp3"
< Content-Type: audio/mpeg
}}}

=== /comments ===

||  Resource						        ||  Method	    ||
||  /comments/{comment_id}	||  GET, DELETE ||

==== GET /comments/{comment_id} ====
Type: Comment

Retrieves the given comment.

{{{
$ curl -u joey:hairspray 'http://api.soundcloud.com/tracks/9/comments'

< HTTP/1.1 200 OK

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<comments type="array">
  <comment>
    <body>A personal favorite of mine.</body>
    <id type="integer">2</id>
    <timestamp type="integer" nil="true"></timestamp>
    <track-id type="integer">9</track-id>
    <user-id type="integer">9</user-id>
  </comment>
</comments>
}}}

==== DELETE /comments/{comment_id} ====
Deletes the given comment.

This is only allowed to the comment's creator or the associated track's owner.

{{{
$ curl -u joey:hairspray 'http://api.soundcloud.com/comments/1' -X DELETE

< HTTP/1.1 200 OK
}}}

=== /assets ===

||  Resource					      ||  Method      ||
||  /assets/			      ||  GET, POST   ||
||  /assets/{asset_id}  ||  GET, DELETE ||

==== GET /assets ====
Type: Asset

Retrieves a list of the logged in user's assets.

{{{
$ curl -u joey:hairspray 'http://api.soundcloud.com/assets'

< HTTP/1.1 200 OK

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<assets type="array">
  <asset>
    <duration type="integer">312043</duration>
    <id type="integer">556</id>
    <track-id type="integer">9</track-id>
  </asset>
  <asset>
    <duration type="integer">302000</duration>
    <id type="integer">557</id>
    <track-id type="integer">10</track-id>
  </asset>
</assets>
}}}

==== POST /assets ====
Response headers:
	Location - Canonical URI of the asset.
	
Parameters:
  * *asset[filedata ]*, form-multipart-encoded-file

{{{
$ curl -u joey:hairspray 'http://api.soundcloud.com/assets' -F asset[filedata]=@final_countdown.wav

< HTTP/1.1 201 Created
< Location: http://api.soundcloud.com/assets/1
}}}

==== DELETE /assets/{asset_id} ====
Deletes the given asset.

{{{
$ curl -u joey:hairspray 'http://api.soundcloud.com/assets/1' -X DELETE

< HTTP/1.1 200 OK
}}}

=== /events ===

||  Resource					  ||  Method  ||
||  /events/			      ||  GET     ||
||  /events/{event_id}  ||  GET     ||

==== GET /events ====
Type: Events

Retrieves a list of the logged in user's events.

{{{
$ curl -u joey:hairspray 'http://api.soundcloud.com/events'

< HTTP/1.1 200 OK

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<events type="array">
  <event>
    <created-at type="datetime">2008-04-04T11:05:15+02:00</created-at>
    <id type="integer">4</id>
    <resource_id type="integer">1</id>
    <type>Comment</type>
    <comment>
       <id type="integer">1</id>
       ...
    </comment>
  </event>
  <event>
    <created-at type="datetime">2008-04-03T11:05:15+02:00</created-at>
    <id type="integer">4</id>
    <resource_id type="integer">1</id>
    <type>Favorite</type>
    <track>
       <id type="integer">1</id>
       ...
    </track>
  </event>
</events>
}}}

==== GET /events/{event_id} ====
Shows the given event and its related resource.

{{{
$ curl -u joey:hairspray 'http://api.soundcloud.com/event/1'

< HTTP/1.1 200 OK

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<event>
  <created-at type="datetime">2008-04-03T11:05:15+02:00</created-at>
  <id type="integer">4</id>
  <resource_id type="integer">1</id>
  <type>Favorite</type>
  <track>
     <id type="integer">1</id>
     ...
  </track>
</event>

}}}